---
layout: post
title: "Advanced Development and Delivery (ADD)"
date: 2015-09-24 1:00
comments: true
categories: IT Automation Cloud Git ADD
---

I have been paid to develop and deliver software since about 1980.  That is 35 years of professional experience.
When I started in 1980 there were a lot of 'old timers' who had been around since 1965 or so.  They were 15 years
ahead of me, and even after finishing college, I had less than ten years to their twenty or so.  This was both
intimidating but also very helpful: after college my main programming language was Smalltalk (ParcPlace, Digitalk, etc.),
which included full source to everything.  So the 'masters' would write masterpieces of code, and I would read them.  And then
try to write my own beautiful things leveraging the masterpieces.  I was late to the party, but could learn quickly.

I also have one other unusual advantage: I do startups.  Lots of startups (http://SlumsOfPaloAlto.com/).  A total of ten software startups over a period of
a bit more than a decade.  Each of these startups failed for one reason or another, but each one _hugely_ progressed in
how good my development team ran.  Eight, nine, and ten were _crazy_ productive: I would run production servers for the
whole company at the same time that I built out the product.  Alone.  And generally way faster than the product management
team could keep up.  At PeerCase the product team actually asked me to _slow down_ delivery so they could ponder what
they wanted for longer.  I literally went to Disney World during ASH (a medical conference) to prevent myself from
releasing new features I knew they wanted.


